---
layout: post
title:  "GitHub Setup"
categories: intro
---
Introduction to Github
======================

We are so excited to start our Spring '23 Comp for Crimson Tech!

Accompanying Slides
-------------------

The slides for this lab, which explain this in a bit more detail, can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nag_7CnuN6f8naBqguAlhu_sgR_1TTHVfYvY3NLVZdU/edit?usp=sharing)!

A. GitHub account
-----------------

We will be communicating through GitHub. If you don't have a GitHub account, please sign up at [https://github.com/](https://github.com/)

#### Only for Window Users: Get WSL!

Follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install) and get Ubuntu. From here, use WSL instead of the command line!

B. Adding an SSH key.
---------------------

If you don’t know what an ssh key is, follow these instructions. This step is tricky! **Feel free to call NK/WG over.**

We need to link the account you just made to your local machine. The ssh key is like the identity of a computer, and is how GitHub knows to trust your machine.

Run the command `ssh-keygen` and hit Enter a few times, leaving the files blank. Then, run `cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` . You should get a string that goes `ssh-rsa [a bunch of characters]`. Copy it.

Go to github, click on your user and go to Settings. Click on `SSH and GPG keys` and click on `New SSH key` and paste the key you got into there.

c. Install Git
--------------

Open up your terminal and type in `git --version`. If you get an error, you need to install Git. Follow the instructions [here](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) to install it.

On Mac, you should install XCode Command Line Tools, using `xcode-select --install`.

D. Fork this repository.
------------------------

Go to [https://github.com/CrimsonTechComp/CompAssignmentsS23](https://github.com/CrimsonTechComp/CompAssignmentsS23). You should see a button on the upper right called **Fork**. Click it! Now, you should have your personal copy of this repository.

Next, you need to **clone** this repository onto your machine. Click on the green `code` option and copy the string you have there. Then, in your terminal, type in `git clone [the string you just received]`.

If you get an error, chances are the SSH key step did not work. **Call us over.**

E. Making edits
---------------

First run `git checkout -b lab1` in your terminal. Make sure you're in the directory where you've cloned your repository!

Using whatever editor you'd like, now change `responses.txt` to say whatever you want.

You are now ready to submit. First, run `git status`. This will show you all the files you have changed in the directory.

Run the command `git add -A`, then `git commit -m "Submit."` You should get something that goes `[main ******] Submit intro lab...`.

At this step, Git may ask you to set your username/email. If so, follow those instructions or call us over.

H. Push the commit
------------------

The change you just made is still living on your local machine. How do you upload them to GitHub? Run the command `git push --set-upstream origin lab1`. Then, go onto your github repository. You won't see the changes there yet - this is because we made them on a `branch` called `lab1`. We'll explain more about this next weel. However, you'll see something else!

I. Submit
---------

There should be a button now called _Compare & Pull Request_. Click on it!

Put in a title and a description, which can be anything you want. Then, hit _open pull request_ or something like that.

Once that is done, you are done! Congratulations on finishing your first lab :D

For more general information about github cs61 has some great explanations here [https://cs61.seas.harvard.edu/site/ref/git](https://cs61.seas.harvard.edu/site/ref/git/)

by Naomi Kenyatta, Richard Xu, and Kevin Luo